the public wants animal cruelty
investigated and prosecuted that's the
point of the alaqua animal refuge second
annual animal cruelty investigation and
prosecution seminar to put everybody in
a room and share information and be able
to ask specific questions on how their
job affects the case was just very
excited attendees included animal
control officers prosecutors animal
welfare experts and law enforcement it's
important to have these types seminars
and conferences so we can go back and we
can teach within our agency Laurie hood
and other animal rights supporters
contend that animal neglect and cruelty
is rife in our community but prosecuting
these cases has been difficult a prime
example is the case of champ the starved
near dead miniature horse rescued by
walton county animal control and a
lacroix animal refuge even though this
appeared to be a-wantin instance of
abuse there were huge challenges both
human and legal to prosecuting the case
thanks to aliquot champ has fully
recovered but the very fact that a
lacroix animal refuge is filled to
capacity with more than 200 horses dogs
cats and other animals many of whom were
victims of abuse and neglect is
testament to the need for a concerted
effort to prosecute cruelty cases I
think we're blessed to have alcohol in
our county they've had helped
tremendously by educating the people
that are investigating cruelty by
educating the prosecutors to what the
laws and the intent of the laws are
hopefully will make things better in the
long run but when it comes to protecting
animals many experts feel that some of
the laws are weak and the penalties not
enough of a deterrent what we want to do
is increase the penalties for animal
cruelty animal fighting baiting we need
to get into some of the other areas of
the law that that
rank crimes you know and give point
systems so that people do get jail time
and so that the courts think of it more
seriously alaqua animal refuge vows to
continue its campaign to make our
community a safe haven for our domestic
and companion animals alaqua provides
shelter safety and second chances for
neglected and abused animals of all
sorts you can help alaqua by donating
volunteering or adopting call 850 8806
399 or check out our website at alaqua
animal refuge com for Eloqua TV Carl
ward reporting